Okay so the first string function we're going to look at is concatenate.
So first of all what does concatenate mean concatenate is when you join two or more things together
into into one single thing.
So in Eskew when we talk about concatenate we're talking about joining together data from multiple columns
and returning it in one single column.
And we do that using the concrete function.
So you can see here we have select conquer and then we have a pair of brackets with two columns inside.
So we have conquer open bracket column one comma column two close bracket.
And that means we're concatenate in these two columns together as a new column.
So as new column name from a table.
So this is going to join column 1 in column 2 or the data from column 1 and column 2 and return it in
one column.
So let's go for an example from our cinema booking system database.
We can select the first and last name from our customers table and return it as one column.
So let's concatenate the first and last name columns together so he can write conquer open up their
brackets and within the brackets we can write our column names.
So the first one is first name comma last name.
And then we can set a new column name.
So this is like setting column aliases so we can say as full name as it will be returning their first
and last name.
We can call the new column full name from customers and we have a semicolon and then we can run this
Eskew or query and see what we get.
So you can see here is returned one column called full name but it's join the data from the first name
and the last thing columns.
So you can see we've got Theresa which is first name and and Davis last name.
Jerry Martin John Smith Martin Watkins Emma Watson etc. etc. So it's concatenated the data from two
columns and then turned it as a single column.
Now you can probably also see that there is a slight problem with the data that this returns in that
there is no space between the first name and the last name.
So it's literally returned first name last name no space.
So we need to know how we can add a space between columns when we can Cattani.
And it's quite simple if we just copy and paste this query because it's not going to change much.
We can go into our brackets and between the first name and the last name we can add another comma and
then between these two commas we can actually had a space by putting double brackets.
Space double brackets and what's happening here is is actually concatenate being three strings though.
So the first string is first name which is gonna be concatenated with this space which is then going
to be concatenated with this lasting column.
So let's run this
and you can see that's much better.
We've now got a space between our first name and our last name.
So there's no limit to the number of things the number of strings you can Courtenay.
You can do two three four etc..
So let's look can an example where we return three columns of data in one single column.
So let's copy and paste our query again the one with the space
and now let's also return the email column but let's put a space between the last name and the email
so it so is readable.
Now we want to return e-mail columns so you can see here we're actually concatenate in five strings
together three rows of data or three columns of data plus two spaces and you can see here it's returned
Theresa Davis Plus her email address.
Jerry Martin plus his e-mail address and so on and between the double quotes we can actually pull any
string we like so if we come and do you one final example let's copy and paste our last query and we
can actually put whatever we like here.
So let's try something a bit more complicated.
Let's type this is Space comma first name.
So the first name column comma last name.
Actually we want a space between the first and last name
and then in this space here.
Let's type apostrophe airspace e-mail.
Colon space.
Email.
So let's see what this returns.
And you can see it is return.
This is first name space last names email followed by the email and you can see our column name is full
name which isn't a good description of the column data.
So let's just put customers e-mail.
Run that query again and you can see now we have a column return to customers email and the data says
this is customers email followed by the email address.
And one final thing if we don't have the column name alias.
So we just say select conquer first name last name from customers.
You can see the column name returned is actually conquer first name last name.
So it returns this part as the column name.
So it's not mandatory to put as full name or to stay a column name alias but obviously it makes much
more sense to do so you get a much better column name makes more sense.
So that's it for concatenate ing data in askew 0.